# Practice Interview Questions: Data Wrangling## Pandas### What data structures does pandas introduce which aren’t native to Python?1. **Series**: a one-dimensional array that can contain any datatype.The basic method to create a Series is:    `s = pd.Series(data, index=index)`    *  `data` in this case may refer to many different things such as a Python dictionary, an ndarray, or a scalar value.    * `index` is a list of axis labels2. **DataFrames**: a two-dimensional array with columns of potentially different data types (although data types must be consistent within a column). The basic method to create a DataFrame is:        `df = pd.DataFrame(data, index=index, columns=columns)`    * `data` may refer to many different things such as: a dictionary of 1D ndarrays, lists, dicts, or Series; 2-D numpy.ndarray; Structured or record ndarray;  Series; another DataFrame    * `index` is a list of row labels    * `columns` is a list of column labelsFor more info: [https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/dsintro.html](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/dsintro.html)### How can you deal with missing values?1. Keep them in place if they do not interfere with data processing.1. Drop rows or columns with any or all missing values:     `df.dropna(axis='index'/'columns', how='any'/'all')`1. Fill in the missing values using one of the following methods:    `df.fillna()`    * Can fill missing values using a scalar, dict, Series, or DataFrame (`value=`)    * Or fill missing values using backfill (`method=bfill`) or forwardfill (`method=ffill`) method            * `df.bfill()` is a synonym for `df.fillna(method='bfill')`        * `df.ffill()` is a synonym for `df.fillna(method='ffill')`    `df.interpolate()`    *  interpolate missing values using different methods such as linear, time,  nearest, zero, quadratic, polynomial, etc.### What is the difference between the .loc and the .iloc indexers?*  `.loc` uses index labels, whereas `.iloc` uses integer positions * `.loc` will raise a `KeyError` when items are not found, whereas `.iloc` will raise an `IndexError` if the indexer is out-of-bounds (except during slicing, where indexers are allowed to be out-of-bounds)### What file formats for storing data do you know?* CSV (Comma-Separated Values)* TXT (Plain Text)* RTF (Rich Text Format)* XLS, XLSX (Microsoft Excel Spreadsheet)* DOCX (Microsoft Word Document)* BIN (binary)* HDF5 (Hierarchical Data Format 5)* JSON (JavaScript Object Notation)* HDFS (Hadoop Filesystem)* PKL (Pickle)* XML (Extensible Markup Language)* HTML (Hypertext Markup Language)* PDF (Portable Document Format)* SHP (ShapeFile)* SAS, SAS7BDAT (Statistical Analysis Software)* SAV (SPSS file format)* DTA (STATA file format)* MAT (MATLAB)* ROOT (Data Analysis Framework from CERN)* Audio File Formats (MP3, WAV, etc) * Image File Formats (PNG, JPEG, GIF, etc)* Video File Formats (MP4, MOV, AVI, etc)* Archive File Formats (ZIP, TAR, RAR, 7zip, etc)### What is the standard way of marking missing values in pandas?`NaN` (Not A Number)### What features of pandas do you like particularly? Any that you dislike? Some of my favorite thing about pandas: * Easily group, pivot, and slice data and get a Series or DataFrame returned* Easy summary statistics with `.describe()`, `.value_counts()`, `.groupby()`, etc* Quick and easy visualization with `.plot()`, which can be performed on grouped, sliced, pivoted, and filtered Series or DataFrame* Built-in `str` methods that allow for easy filtering### What kind of indexes exist in pandas DataFrames?* *Int64Index*: fundamental basic index in pandas    * **RangeIndex*: optimized version of Int64Index* *Float64Index*: created when passing floating, or mixed-integer-floating values in index creation* *CategoricalIndex*:  useful for supporting indexing with duplicates* *IntervalIndex*: allows for interval notation indexing* *DatetimeIndex*: an index boxed to Timestamp objects that are subclasses of datetime and carry metadata such as frequency information* *PeriodIndex*: index using regular periods in time such as particular years, quarters, months, etc.* *TimedeltaIndex*: index boxed to timedelta objects* *MultiIndex*: a hierarchical, multi-level indexing scheme## SQL### What are aggregations in SQL?Aggregations are methods of grouping data for the purpose of performing a mathematic l function### Can you explain the different types of SQL JOINs?* INNER JOIN: returns the intersection of the left and right tables* FULL OUTER JOIN: returns the union of the left and right tables, with NULL for any unmatched rows* LEFT JOIN: returns all rows from the left table and matching rows from the right; unmatching rows from the right will contain NULL* RIGHT JOIN: returns all rows from the right table and matching rows from the left; unmatching rows from the left will contain NULL### Give an example of some aggregation functions in SQL.* COUNT* SUM* MIN* MAX* AVG* STD* VARIANCE### Can you explain the difference between the WHERE and HAVING filters?* `WHERE` will filter results based on a comparison operator, but it does not work on aggregated data* `HAVING` will filter results of aggregated data based on a comparison operator