# Practice Interview Questions:  Programming Boot-Up1. **What native data structures can you name in Python? Of these, which are mutable, and which are immutable?**    * primitive        * integers        * floats        * strings        * boolean    * mutable:        * lists        * sets        * dictionaries    * immutable:        * tuples1. **Explain the difference between a list and a dictionary?**Lists are ordered and indexed by position. Dictionaries are unordered and made of nestable key-value pairs. They are indexed by keys. Lists can be sliced to select a subset of items, whereas dictionaries cannot.1. **In a list, what data types can be elements?** Lists can contain homogenous or heterogenous values consisting of any data type including strings, integers, floats, lists, and dictionaries.1. **In a dictionary, what data types can the key be? And the values? Why?** Dictionary keys must be unique, immutable objects (strings, Booleans, integers, tuples). Values can be of any data type and do not need to be unique. This is because dictionaries are indexed by their unique keys, whereas values can contain any type of information, including nested dictionaries.1. **When would you use a list vs. a tuple vs. a set in Python?** Lists would be used when order and mutability matter. Because of their immutable nature, Tuples would be used when speed and data protection matter. Sets would be used when the uniqueness, but not the order, of items matters.1. **Explain the difference between a for loop and a while loop.** A `while` loop will repeat an action until a condition is met. A `for` loop will repeat an action on each item in a sequence.1. **What packages in the standard library, useful for Data Science work, do you know?**    * pickle    * sqlite3    * math    * statistics    * itertools    * csv    * time    * json    * html    * urllib    * timeit1. **Do you know any additional data structures available in the standard library?**    * frozenset1. **Can you explain what a list or dict comprehension is?** List comprehensions (written as `[x for x in seq]`) use mathematical notation to create a list by performing an action on each element, `x`, in a sequence, `seq`. This is a one-line substitute for a `for` loop. Dictionary comprehensions (written as `{key:value for (key, value) in dictionary.items()}`) are a way of turning one dictionary into another. This can be used to conditionally create a new dictionary or transform the items as needed. Comprehensions can be used to create code that is easier to read.